Throughout my life, I have always been keen on learning, understanding, and application of various skills or academic concepts.  However, my interest in teaching, and helping people learn was never my day-to-day focus. However, finishing high school and entering UofSC, these priorities quickly shifted. I started being more involved with teaching my fellow classmates’ things such as sports, board games, and even topics in certain classes. I noticed a problem. People often would try to build upon skills that were underdeveloped or rushed, leading to elaborate skill sets being held up by the smallest support. Just as a real foundation’s purpose is to support a larger structure, a weak foundation could result in instability or potential collapse. Similarly, learners often fail to reach true heights with their learning because of the limitations of their weak intellectual foundation in a subject. True mastery of a subject is not defined just by the degree of complexity in one’s topics, but rather the integrity of the intellectual principles they are built upon. 
My pursuit of learning in college also led me to new opportunities. Being inspired to pursue research as my primary career path, the idea of becoming a University Professor came to mind. My time as a Teaching Assistant for CSCE146, Algorithmic Design II, allowed me to test this perspective. This class introduced topics such as Big O Notation, Sorting Algorithms, and more.  I was thrilled to be in the position to assist students in a class so fundamentally important to their major experience. My primary role throughout my TA position was to be present throughout various lab sessions, answering questions or helping students with concepts they were having difficulty with. As seen in artifact #1, student assignments would follow similar formats throughout labs: Applying a specific data structure or algorithm into an applicable setting. While not focusing on the intricate explanations of how every concept works, the assignments focus on showing real world applications and use cases. One of the best outcomes that came from being a TA was not only watching the students’ skills develop as the class progressed but also recognizing how important these initial concepts were to their career in coding or computing. Furthermore, my concurrent enrollment in CSCE350 (Data Structures and Algorithms) further led me to fulfill these goals. 
In CSCE350, previously covered topics such as graphs, data structures, and algorithm efficiency is brought back into the mainstream. These topics are then heavily discussed and practiced, learning more deep insights and the math of why they work. In artifact #2, my final project for the class covered a cohesive analysis pipeline of a famous sorting algorithm Quicksort regarding its efficiency in both time and space. A sorting algorithm is a method for organizing information, like sorting books in a library or sorting people’s heights from shortest to tallest. This algorithm is introduced in classes such as CSCE145 and CSCE146 demonstrating application rather than specific efficiency. However, by already having experience this concept in a more manageable form, the detailed analysis found in the project became significantly easier. Notably, in one of my TA Lab sessions a student asked me a question about one of the algorithms they were learning, “Why do we use this?”. Using the concepts I was learning in CSCE 350 allowed me to explain the underlying mechanics as to the advantages/disadvantages any one algorithm and structure had over another. Being a TA while also taking this class deepened my understanding of both subject matters and emphasized their mutual importance. Although Algorithmic Design II covered relatively simple subject matter, the importance of these introductory topics cannot be overstated. Similarly, without having previously worked with these topics, rigorous explanations of subjects such as graph theory and algorithm analysis can be extremely difficult and tedious. Despite the importance both classes have on the experiences of the students, developing a strong foundation in subject matter in the earlier class pays massive dividends for future, higher level classes. 
	For a career in research, significant time and energy needs to be dedicated to staying up to date on recent breakthroughs and developments in your field of research. Building upon this can lead to easier engagement with more advanced research topics and more insights. Despite this, however, an equal amount of energy needs to continuously be used for reviewing and strengthening the foundations for which research and development is built upon. 



